add github management policies dir (#155)
ossf/tac: policies/access.md

# GitHub Access Management Policy

> ## Teams, not Individuals

Reviewer: One commonly encountered downfall of using GitHub teams is that the teams and their members are not publicly visible. Teams have two states, [visible and secret](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/organizing-members-into-teams/about-teams#team-visibility). Visible teams can be viewed and mentioned **by organisation members**. Secret teams can be viewed and mentioned only by people on the team and organisation owners. 

This observation need not be a blocker for this effort, but we should likely document it here and be more aware of it in how we communicate governance. For example, [linking to teams in README's](https://github.com/ossf/wg-securing-software-repos/issues/15) isn't very useful for the majority of folks reading the README.

Reviewer: I may be wrong here, I can see 9 of the 44 teams in this view https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams which suggests there's a third visibility state for teams.

Reviewer 2: I'm pretty sure I don't see any teams, just repositories. Try browsing that page using incognito?

Author: I’m aware of this, yes - the long term intention is to automate things so that the readme will list the members of a team, and stay in sync with it. If folks think it’s worth documenting how github works here that’s fine, but I’m not going to hold up this PR on it.

Reviewer 2: Since one of your reviewers tripped on this behavior, and I doubt most GitHub users are well versed in the details, and it sounds like you have quite a few members, it's probably a good idea to add some text to mention all of these points.

Reviewer 3: oppose re-documenting GH here, or anywhere.  at most, linking to [the relevant documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/organizing-members-into-teams/about-teams#team-visibility) is sufficient

> Access to repositories will be granted only to GitHub teams, not to individuals. A repo may have any number of teams added to it, with the appropriate access levels.

Reviewer 4: How to we enforce this?

Allstar has a policy to nag if any individuals have write/admin access, we could use this.

Author: We already have an auditing tool; see https://github.com/ossf/github-org-access-scraper.

## Team Structure

> Teams will be nested, using parent/child relationships, as needed. A child team will implicitly have any privileges its parent team does, so, the most deeply nested team should be the one with the most privileges.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Teams will be nested, using parent/child relationships, as needed. A child team will implicitly have any privileges its parent team does, so the most deeply nested team should be the one with the most privileges.
```

### Top-level teams

Note: this list is intentionally not exhaustive.

- [TAC](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/tac)
    This team is for current TAC members. Individuals should be added or removed from this team to reflect current membership.
- [Staff](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/staff)
    This team is for OpenSSF staff members. Individuals on the top-level team are there as a catch-all, but may be moved to subteams as the need arises.
  - [PMs](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/pms)
      This teams is for PMs, who often need Maintain or Admin access on repos.
  - [Marketing](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/marketing)
- [Working Groups](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/working-groups)
    This is the parent team for Working Groups. Every WG should have a subteam contained within this one. All WG subteams must start with `wg-` for consistency.
- [SIGs](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/sigs)
    This is the parent team for SIGs. Every SIG should have a subteam contained within this one. All SIG subteams must start with `sig-` for consistency.
- [Projects](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/projects)

>     This is the parent team for projects. Every project (eg scorecard, AO) should have a subteam contained within this one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This is the parent team for projects. Every project (e.g. scorecard, AO) should have a subteam contained within this one.
```

>     Teams for individual repositories go under here, which start with `repo-`, but team names may otherwise be unconstrained.

Reviewer 4: Following PLP(below) projects will need teams for each access level (eg scorecard-read, scorecard-traige, scorecard-write, scorecard-maintain)

Author: In the extreme yes, but we'd only create these as needed, since most repos don't need this granularity atm.

Reviewer 4: I don't think this is just an extreme case. Take a look at the BP-WG group:
https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/wg-best-practices/members
https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/wg-best-practices/repositories

All those people who had some kind of access to any of the 6 repos now have write/maintain access to all of them. In an effort to reduce the manual configuration of groups. repos and access-levels will be consolidated and people will be getting access they don't need and/or shouldn't have.

Author: Sure, that's a fair point. However, when I created that specific team i was told that all members should have Write. There's a tradeoff here balancing convenience and "least privilege", and since Write is a pretty non-dangerous privilege, it seemed like a worthy one.

If we end up needing to do this for the majority of repos, then we should absolutely document it as the default approach, but we're not there yet today.

Reviewer 4: > There's a tradeoff here balancing convenience and "least privilege"

This is exactly my point. Without granular teams per repo and access level, we are reducing our security and going against PLP. Without some sort of automation or config-as-code way to manage the teams, convenience will undermine the goals of the teams mandate.

Author: I think that is something we can iterate on as well - automation is worth considering but in practice is often overkill, and the goal here isn't strict PLP, but a safer balance.

## Principle of Least Privilege

 Permission levels should be as high as they need to be, and no higher.

> - There's few settings that justify Admin access over Maintain, so prefer Maintain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- There are few settings that justify Admin access over Maintain, so prefer Maintain.
```

> - There's few settings that justify Admin access over Maintain, so prefer Maintain.

Reviewer 4: Looks like Maintain doesn't allow setting up branch protection. A lot of or repos don't have this setup Will org admins set this up, if we don't have Admin access to our own repos?

Author: Yes; org admins (the PM team, primarily) will be available to do any repo administration that repo owners lack access to do.

Reviewer 4: This doesn't seem like a tenable solution. If encouraging project owners to not have admin on the repos, they really need an easy way to read settings, and an automated way to apply changes. 
https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/security/otterdog is a tool we could use to do this, for example.

Author: This is definitely something we can iterate on; in my experience managing large github orgs, maintainers rarely need Admin more than a handful of times over the lifetime of a repo, and as long as the friction is minimal when it's needed, it's "fine".

Note also that the language here is "prefer"; if anyone feels strongly that they want admin over a repo, then imo they can have it.

> - Explicit Read access has an advantage: users with Read can be assigned to issues and requested as PR reviewers even if they're not the author

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Explicit Read access has an advantage: users with Read can be assigned to issues and requested as PR reviewers even if they're not the author.
```

- [Staff](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/staff)
    This team is for OpenSSF staff members. Individuals on the top-level team are there as a catch-all, but may be moved to subteams as the need arises.
  - [PMs](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/pms)
      This teams is for PMs, who often need Maintain or Admin access on repos.
  - [Marketing](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/marketing)
- [Working Groups](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/working-groups)
    This is the parent team for Working Groups. Every WG should have a subteam contained within this one. All WG subteams must start with `wg-` for consistency.
- [SIGs](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/sigs)
    This is the parent team for SIGs. Every SIG should have a subteam contained within this one. All SIG subteams must start with `sig-` for consistency.
- [Projects](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/projects)
    This is the parent team for projects. Every project (eg scorecard, AO) should have a subteam contained within this one.
    Teams for individual repositories go under here, which start with `repo-`, but team names may otherwise be unconstrained.

> ## Github Org Membership

Author: This document doesn’t propose automating this at all, so the answer is “manually” - you need to ask someone who can direct your request to OpenSSF staff, and they can resend your invite as well.

> ## Github Org Membership

Reviewer 5: Fair enough! Is there an OpenSSF staff email address we should list here? Or is that out of scope of the policy document?

> ## Github Org Membership

Author: I think that's out of scope of the document; it's pretty easy to reach folks in the Slack :-)

> ## GitHub Org Membership

Reviewer 5: From https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/164#issuecomment-1549952618, can we break this section out of this pull request, and give it its own pull request?

We'd like to start the team / role-based access control as soon as possible to help with things like https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/161 and https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/162. 

The TAC discussion yesterday on `GitHub Org Membership` was generally in favor, but I think folks would like to ask more clarifying questions and have a longer discussion around this point. But in the meantime, we don't wan to block the team / role-based access control work. Thanks!

Author: hmm, that's not how i read @AevaOnline's comment - i read it as needing a separate task to see what could be *built on top of* this section.

The team-based work is blocked on being able to freely add people to the org - and I've been doing that for the last few months as part of my audit already.

Reviewer 5: The way I interpret "membership in the GitHub org should be freely given" is that we would be required to add anyone who asks to https://github.com/ossf, even if they don't end up on any GitHub org teams.

Without this section, my understanding is we would still be able to add people to https://github.com/ossf in order to complete the team-based work.

Author: “should” doesn’t obligate us, but yes it’s also fine to have someone in the org on no teams - that makes them easily addable *to* teams.

Fine to remove this section though if the TAC feels it should be deferred.

Author: This is done; I'll open the second PR once this one lands.

Author: Filed #171

>  Membership in the Github org should be freely given - it inherently confers no permissions or privileges, only a badge on the user's profile if they enable it - and it _does_ allow for easier team management. Someone should only be removed from the org in extreme circumstances where their association with OpenSSF would be problematic, and people should be encouraged to remain in the org in perpetuity.

Reviewer 6: This feels different than many open source projects. Especially for a relatively new and also broad umbrella foundation, I worry that this freely given perpetual membership even if only a weak badging, might encourage confusion on what is or is not officially part, sponsored by, under consideration within the auspices of the foundation. That type of confusion and contention has already been a bit of a problem for the OpenSSF org. 

I personally would prefer a simple and collaborative open membership. But I also want clarity of mission and propose and that to be easily discovered and difficult to confuse. 

Perhaps this is less of an issue if leadership (ie: certain team memberships in the org?) roles are clearly marked. But GitHub team memberships tend to be opaque. I’m not sure if there is maybe an org setting which would allow team members be viewed by non org members.  Or if not…alternatively if anybody can get org membership, I guess anybody could ask for org membership to be able to see team membership?  Or GH team members defined by in repo yaml configs?  Still not great UX though.

Author: @tpepper OpenSSF is not itself an open source project, and this is how TC39 operates, which I think is more analogous.

I agree that it's not great UX that the only way to be on a team is to be in the org, but it seems a worthy tradeoff for me.

>  Membership in the Github org should be freely given - it inherently confers no permissions or privileges, only a badge on the user's profile if they enable it - and it _does_ allow for easier team management. Someone should only be removed from the org in extreme circumstances where their association with OpenSSF would be problematic, and people should be encouraged to remain in the org in perpetuity.

Reviewer 5: Currently, it looks like members of https://github.com/ossf can create public and private repositories. We should probably audit https://github.com/organizations/ossf/settings/member_privileges before opening up membership as described in this document.

Author: It seems reasonable to me to restrict repo creation to OpenSSF staff and the TAC, if there’s agreement on that.

Reviewer 7: This is NOT done correctly. I am not sure how to allow certain teams to create repos.
In https://github.com/organizations/ossf/settings/member_privileges it is not team-based. I would love a learning session on this from someone who knows how to do this.

Author: @hythloda the mechanism we're currently using is that only org owners can create repos, and all TAC members and some PMs are org owners. It indeed can't be team-based.
